F1: Mercedes Brackley HQ plan approved

Nadia Lincoln

https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/news/1024/branded_news/FF43/production/_132274356_abudhabigrandprix.jpg

An F1 team's plans to expand its campus has been given council approval despite opposition from nearby firms.

West Northamptonshire Council approved the Brackley-based site's expansion at a meeting on Wednesday.

Mercedes-AMG Petronas wants to relocate its principal staff access point from Lauda Drive to St James Road, a cul-de-sac occupied by several small firms.

The council said it would lead to "significant economic development benefits" for the town.

However local companies said the road would be inundated by traffic, which could increase tenfold.

The Local Democracy Reporting Service (LDRS) said the Northamptonshire-based F1 team had plans to expand their operations over the next five years, which would also see the workforce increase from 1,400 to 1,900 people.

Council officers estimated that cars turning into St James Road would increase from 57 to 528, and from 50 to 297 during morning and evening peaks.

A security gatehouse would also be fitted at the new entrance.

Simon Wheeler, managing director of Canonbury Products located on St James Road, spoke at the meeting as an objector and said he was "disappointed" Mercedes had not been in touch to discuss their proposals.

"Ourselves and the other businesses along St James Road feel completely sidelined in the planning process," he said.

"We do not believe there has been sufficient information provided by Mercedes to justify the use of St James Road, other than to provide a more attractive landscape campus for their employees.

"The sheer volume of Mercedes traffic will inevitably cause queuing and disruption.

"In our experience, we are likely to lose valuable employees if this occurs."

A representative of construction giant Travis Perkins, located on the industrial estate, also spoke to register the company's objection and raise concerns about a lack of communication from Mercedes.

Development manager for Mercedes-AMG F1, Ian Smith, told the meeting that the company had looked at different options on access routes, but that ultimately splitting their access between the previous entrance at Lauda Drive and using St James Road in peak hours was the "best operation".

He added: "Our current site does not meet the future ambitions of the company moving forward.

"We need to make significant investment in our site and create a world-class campus which ensures that we not only attract the highest calibre of staff but also attract and retain sponsors."

The council approved the planning application, subject to conditions.

It also added two notes - relating to the construction methods plan and the car park management plan - and asked for Mercedes to run a consultation with local businesses before submitting these documents.